I, on the other hand, have nothing at all.
Doctor…
Nokaze, may I come in?
He is a retired lord
of a noble family related to the shogun.
What about this retired lord?
There was talk
about him wanting to marry you.
Would you accept?
Whether good or bad,
is it not customary that
a courtesan cannot refuse
a proposal for marriage?
It stopped.
I'm coming in.
Um…
Is something wrong?
No, it's nothing.
Please lie down here.
Doctor?
Excuse me.
It's so difficult to use.
What is a traube like in the future?
This middle part becomes
a long rubber tube.
And the tip splits into two,
and those ends, you put in your ears--
After a while,
there were no further
changes in the photo.
Meanwhile,
there were new developments at Jinyudo.
YAMASA SOY SAUCE, PENICILLIN FACTORY
This is a traube, right?
We all discussed it
and then tried making it.
Mr. Yokomatsu is skilled at crafting.
Aside from that, we also made this!
I'm the one who made it.
Could this be a resuscitator?
-What's it made of?
-A wild boar's bladder.
A wild boar's bladder?!
Yes! Mr. Yagi even made that.
The speed of medical progress
seemed to be accelerating naturally.
But…
it had no effect on Miki at all.
Is this also a medical tool, Dr. Minakata?
Dr. Minakata?
Right.
It helps with breathing.
For people who temporarily can't breathe,
you use this to push air in
until they start breathing again.
When do you use it?
Maybe during a fire.
A fire?
What could you possibly do with that toy?
It may look like a toy, but it's not.
Something like that
won't be of any use in a fire!
Is that so?
-I think it can be quite useful.
-Are you mocking me?!
Get out of here!
-Stop making a ruckus.
-I apologize.
This really is Edo…
Are you a doctor?
Yes.
Have you ever been to a fire scene?
No.
See, I knew it. That's how doctors are.
They talk big about helping people,
but I've never seen a doctor
helping anyone at a fire scene.
I've seen plenty of doctors
carrying chests of gold while trampling
on anything sacred.
Some might be like that--
What has saved Edo from fires
is the courage and spirit of firefighters.
Doctors don't have that, I'm telling you.
The courage and spirit of doctors
saved Edo from an epidemic.
Interesting.
Then you better show me.
Show me the courage and spirit of doctors.
I'll call you when there's a fire.
Got it?
I promise.
Try not to run away.
Who was that guy?
You don't even know him?
That was Tatsugoro Shinmon.
Even crying children
fall silent before Chief Tatsugoro!
Tatsugoro…
-Is that the Tatsugoro of the Me-brigade?
-No, it's the Wo-brigade.
He shows extraordinary command
at fire scenes,
and he's famous for settling
large-scale brawls.
They say he has more than 3,000 followers.
He's one of the top fire chiefs
of this era.
Despite being a commoner,
he's favored by Lord Hitotsubashi.
He even brought 300 men with him as guards
for Lord Hitotsubashi's trip to Kyoto.
His influence surpasses
even some of the elders of the shogunate.
I made a promise with someone like him?
JINYUDO
What a weird promise I made…
Shall we have fried tofu today?
There's no telling when you'll be called,
so wouldn't it be nice to enjoy
your favorite dish to gain strength?
You're quite the flatterer.
When I first saw you, I thought
you were Ms. Saki's older sister.
Just the other day, one of my young men--
Oh, Mr. Kyo, you seem to have recovered.
What brings you to our home today?
You remain as reserved as ever.
Today, I wanted to see the doctor
because I thought
of something "ei-nteresting."
I brought a letter.
DR. MINAKATA
You're going to sell penicillin, Ryoma?
I've been thinking about it since then.
If we explain
the medicine and how to use it
not only in this country,
but eventually sell it overseas,
Jinyudo will prosper as well!
If I mediate the sales,
the Naval Academy will also thrive.
It's like killing
two birds with one stone!
That might be true, but…
Ryoma, you're a bit too close.
It's not just about the money.
It could help us unite Japan
without even fighting.
Unite Japan?
The Joi-faction members are having
secret talks in brothels,
and they're all infected with syphilis.
If they're going to die
of syphilis anyway,
they think they might as well
die by the sword before that.
But what if this penicillin that you made
were to appear on the scene?
With their lives at stake,
some might abandon their ideas.
Don't you think it could prevent
some needless fighting
between the Joi-faction and
those on the side of the shogunate?
But if we do that, history…
What?
What about history?
No, I mean…
Excuse me?
It's a letter from Ms. Nokaze.
Ms. Nokaze?
I have a private matter
I would like to consult with you about.
I would appreciate it if you could come
to Suzuya today.
Please keep this matter
confidential from everyone.
-Ryoma!
-Well then, let's go.
Courtesan, here I come!
Someone might be ill.
Perhaps it's better for you to go.
You're right.
-But the fried tofu…
-You can have my fried tofu anytime.
You should go.
I…
Doctor, hurry up!
I wanted to meet Ms. Nokaze
to confirm a certain hypothesis.
Miki's photo has changed many times
over time.
It seemed to vaguely reflect
how the future of medicine was altered
by what I had done.
But this time, the change
seemed to shake
Miki Tomonaga's very existence.
Could this be a sign
that something has begun to happen?
If, hypothetically,
Ms. Nokaze is Miki's ancestor,
depending on what happens
to Ms. Nokaze right now,
Miki might never be born.
That could be the case.
No matter what I do,
I always believed the great flow
of history would not change.
But…
What's wrong, Ryoma?
I saw a butterfly.
A butterfly?
There shouldn't be any butterflies around
this time of year.
But maybe it's not as I thought.
The small flutter of a butterfly,
which shouldn't be here…
The wind's picking up tonight.
…may be starting to turn into a storm.
I was just talking to Ryoma, so…
I will stay away
during your private discussion.
I would very much appreciate it
if you could do so.
You've prepared quite the feast.
Ms. Nokaze, what is this?
I have nothing to consult.
What?
The other day, you refused to accept
my payment, did you not?
So I decided to spend
that money in one go.
I purchased myself for 50 ryo.
You shouldn't have spent 50--
Every time we meet,
all you talk about is medicine.
Just once,
I wanted to talk about something else.
Alright, let's just talk normally.
-All this isn't necessary.
-Hey! The best in Japan!
Come into this world, Doctor!
Come. Let's drink.
Here I go.
Growl…
Alright, one more time!
Doctor,
please.
Thank you.
There's nothing quite like
being served by you!
I'm going to the restroom.
Sure. Take your time.
Miss, come over here.
Don't worry and come here.
-Hurry up, courtesan.
-Mr. Sakamoto, here you are.
This is great.
Now, Mr. Sakamoto, here.
I should be getting back.
THE GREAT DEITY MINAKATA
Just this once.
Ms. Saki…
Forgive me…
Huh?
Ryoma?
He fell asleep, drunk.
-What?!
-Ms. Nokaze is in the other room.
Please, go ahead.
Go ahead?
Doctor,
please open it quietly.
What's going on?
It must be cold out there.
Please, come in.
Thank you for the hospitality today.
-It's already late, so I think I should--
-Do you think I'm a liar?
But, you're a liar too, Doctor.
You're not from this world,
yet you pretend
to be someone from this world.
How did you know that?
I just had a feeling.
Even though you're alive in this world,
it feels like you're not really living.
Doctor, somehow,
I felt like you and I were similar.
-Similar to you, Ms. Nokaze?
-This place…
is a castle built entirely on lies.
Do you intend to be
with Ms. Saki one day, Doctor?
No. If I said that, Saki would get angry.
I'm almost her father's age.
-Besides, I don't feel that way about her.
-Then is there someone else in your heart?
What might that person be like?
-That's a little…
-Please tell me.
Just a little bit will do.
I won't tell anyone, I swear.
She's someone
who easily gets misunderstood.
She's the kind of person who's
hard to read until you get used to her.
I dislike the word "impossible."
That's all.
Why must courtesans live
in fear of such a disease?
She's smart and hates to lose…
As I began to put it into words,
I started to realize
that Ms. Nokaze and Miki
are not only alike in appearance,
but also in their personality.
What is her name?
Tonight,
please call me by that name.
You wouldn't be
unfaithful to her if you did that.
Dr. Jin…
It's not that I don't trust you, Jin.
But honestly, I'm scared…
Wouldn't it be better
to wait until morning?
When I sit still,
all I do is think of bad things.
Your heart is racing.
No matter what kind of liar I am,
this is the one thing I cannot hide.
This sound alone
is my…
truth.
I don't think the doctor is someone
who would be swept up by circumstances.
It's not that he is being swept up.
He is returning
to where he came from.
Returning?
This…
Saki, do you hear something?
A fire bell?
Then you better show me.
Show me the courage and spirit of doctors.
I'm sorry, Ms. Nokaze.
I have to go!
Is it because my body is tainted?
No! I promised I would go treat
people when there's a fire!
A promise?
I'm sorry.
It's pointless to argue, isn't it?
Because that's the kind of man
you are, Dr. Minakata.
Please, go.
Thank you!
What do you mean he's not here?
He's away for a consultation,
but I'll send word
to call him back immediately.
Sorry I'm late!
I'm sorry for worrying you.
I'll prepare everything right away!
Please!
Protect the firebreak at all costs!
Oh, the quack doctor is here!
Yes! Where are the patients?
Senkichi!
Over here!
I'll leave this place to you!
Saki, is there any place nearby
where we can treat them?
How about that storehouse over there?
Let's do that.
Dr. Minakata!
Kyotaro!
-Dr. Minakata, what do we do first?
-In that case…
Please cut this into strips.
In a disaster,
we divide the patients
based on their injuries
and decide the order of treatment.
Patients needing urgent care
are marked in red.
Those whose condition is stable
but can wait for only a short period
are in yellow.
Can you walk on your own?
Those who can wait are marked in green.
Those who have already passed away
are marked in black.
Doctor, we're ready!
Alright.
Thank you all for waiting.
Now, we'll begin the treatment
starting with those marked in red.
Understood!
Place them on this platform, please.
Someone, hold the legs and the middle.
One, two!
-Put him on the backboard!
-Are you all right? Hold on tight.
Don't move.
Bring in the next patient marked in red!
There is a proper order!
My child won't stop crying!
Can't you see her first?
Please! Please, I'm begging you!
Do it!
Please!
I'll go outside too.
Saki, if you go,
we won't be able to manage things here.
The priority order is absolute
in a disaster.
She's marked green.
Don't let your emotions interfere!
-But!
-Once she drinks this, she'll be fine.
Calm down.
She's not crying from an injury.
It's just a stomachache.
You are from the Igakukan?
If it's something Chinese medicine
can handle, I'll help as well!
Move her here!
Next patient, please!
This may feel a little cold.
The treatment area is over here!
Here we go!
-Next, over here!
-Right!
Senkichi, break the downwind!
Hey, Senkichi!
Senkichi!
There are fewer patients now.
Saki, hang in there a little longer.
-Yes.
-Make way! It's an emergency!
-Bring him over here.
-Hurry up!
Mr. Senkichi!
He was struggling inside the fire.
I think it's a thermal airway injury.
Get the resuscitator!
Right.
It's too stiff. The air isn't going in.
I told you that kind of thing
wouldn't work!
When it gets this bad,
there's nothing you can do.
I've seen this happen many times.
Hey! Let's carry Senkichi to the monk.
Yes, sir!
Don't touch my patient!
Let's cut his throat. Saki, get ready.
What did you say?
Mr. Senkichi inhaled hot smoke and air,
burning the inside of his throat.
His throat is swollen
and he can't breathe.
If we cut the throat and insert a tube,
he'll be able to breathe.
If you cut his throat, he'll die for sure!
If we don't cut it, he'll die.
-This is ridiculous. Let's go!
-Yes, sir!
Stop!
Why aren't you trying to save lives?!
If we operate, we can save Mr. Senkichi!
Dying in a fire
is the wish of a firefighter.
But if he dies with his throat cut,
Senkichi won't be able to rest in peace.
That's the spirit of a firefighter.
There are countless lives
that we cannot save.
But if I ignore the lives I can save,
then I won't rest in peace, even in death!
That's the spirit of a doctor!
His lips are turning blue.
He's showing signs of cyanosis.
-I'll call any available doctor!
-Please do.
Senkichi is my right-hand man.
If he dies, I'll be taking your right arm
as payment. Let's go!
Yes, sir!
Aren't you going to use anesthesia?
He needs air, there's no time for that!
-Hold him down firmly.
-Yes.
What's that?
I'm injecting air
directly with this syringe.
Hold him steady!
Airway secured.
Let's go. Make sure to hold him steady.
Right.
The wind has changed.
Chief! The treatment area
is on the downwind side.
Shall we send a message?
Don't let the fire spread
even if it kills you!
That's the spirit of Edo's firefighters!
Yes!
Move quickly! Hurry!
What kind of treatment is this?
The fire is closing in on us!
We've evacuated the mobile patients.
Doctors, please relocate the surgery site!
Close the door.
We're in the middle of surgery.
We can't move the patient now.
If you want to leave, go ahead.
Do you plan on dying?!
When it collapses,
cover it with mats soaked in water.
Protect your station with your life!
The tracheotomy is complete.
-Tracheal suction.
-Yes.
Doctor, there's not that much soot
in his phlegm…
The burn hasn't spread
to his lungs or lower trachea.
-Alright. Cannula!
-Yes.
And next?
If we remove the inner tube
and he starts breathing,
Mr. Senkichi will live.
Let's do this all at once!
Here we go!
Here I go.
It's down!
Alright… he's breathing!
Yes!
The surgery is complete.
Shall we go outside?
-Please.
-Yes.
Doctor!
This is…
The buildings… are all gone.
The fire's out.
How are things over there?
He was saved.
I see you didn't run away.
The spirit of a doctor is truly something.
I'm a firefighter through and through,
but you're a doctor through and through.
No. It's nothing as impressive as that.
To be honest, I wasn't sure what to do…
But
I decided to believe
in the spirit of Edo's firefighters.
That's why I could do it.
Thank you very much.
Chief Tatsugoro.
Damn it, you rascal!
No matter how great you are,
I can't forgive you
for abandoning me, Doctor!
Where is the Doctor?
-He went to the fire.
-A fire?
While I was sleeping?
Things were going so well,
but I lost to the fire.
Going well…?
But why did you seduce him?
It doesn't really seem like your style.
Between the Doctor and Ms. Saki,
there's medicine.
I, too, wanted something to bind us.
Then, I thought
I could leave this place without regret.
Leave?
I…
am being bought out.
It may sound nice, but…
I will just become a caged bird
inside a mansion this time.
And then,
I won't be able to meet the doctor
as often as before.
Just once I wished to…
It's truly painful, isn't it?
To be cast aside like that.
I made a living by selling love,
but I didn't understand
such feelings at all.
I truly learned something good
from Dr. Minakata.
If you want to cry, just go ahead and cry!
The tears of a courtesan
are flowers of deceit.
To shed honest tears for love
would tarnish the name of a courtesan.
This way, I won't see your face.
I want
to become like snow.
If I become snow,
anytime and anywhere…
I could fall
onto the Doctor's shoulders.
After the commotion of the fire,
I thought for a moment,
that if this fire hadn't happened
and I had stayed with her,
would Miki have regained her color?
A… lump?
Next, please.
How is this?
Will you build a hospital?
You always need a place like this
when there's a fire, right?
-Well… Yes.
-Then it's settled.
Fires are waiting for us.
You're a firefighter to the bone.
A long time ago, during a fire,
I demolished a house.
The wind was so strong
that we had no choice.
But a woman
I was once in love with was in there.
She was trapped in there and died.
Even though I saved countless strangers,
I ended up killing the woman I loved.
I have to keep fighting fires until I die.
Mother, what do you wish to discuss?
A marriage proposal has arrived for you.
For me?
What could be affecting Miki's existence?
Doctor…
Is there something wrong
with the photograph?
You've been concerned about it lately.
It's nothing.
Doctor, actually I…
Father, I have one request.
Before the marriage arrangement,
there will be a physical examination.
I would like to ask
Dr. Minakata to perform it.
Did something happen to you?
Actually…
Yes?
What is Sakamoto
planning to do with penicillin?
It seems he's trying to sell it
to the Joi-faction
since it's effective against syphilis.
Sell it? What for?
When their life depends on it…
some may abandon
their devotion to expel foreigners.
Mr. Kusaka!
Perhaps that is the real aim.
I also received a secret letter
from someone wanting to talk to me.
We must kill Sakamoto, then.
What's wrong, Doctor?
The pain that I had forgotten
brings back buried memories.
I'm going back, to that world.
I see… That is…
Doctor!
Thank you for everything until now,
Dr. Minakata.
Do you know our fate, Doctor?
I was certain it was cancer.
Medicine sometimes reveals even the heart.
Let's go!
Ryoma Sakamoto can't die here.
I have a lump in my chest.
If so, it's a lethal illness!
What are you doing, Doctor? Go back!
Were you going to let Ms. Nokaze die?
Lives will be needlessly lost.
I like you very much, Ms. Saki.
I cannot endure this.
Saki, please be happy.
Everything will end soon.